ROLE: 
instance in ec2 ---- bucket in s3
code --- copy files from instance & dumps to s3
Each resource in AWS are independent of each other

resorce to resource access is given by ROLE 
who ---- assuming role --- ec2 is assuming this role ---- whom: assume role on s3 

depending on them create policy 

then only it can dump the data

services --- don't have access -- resorces also no permission 


roles can be used to give permission to user 
--- arjun ec2 user for 3 hours (temporary access to aws services)
--- we can use Assume role - temporary access to aws resources
--- access key, secret key session token 
--- arjun can login to account for 3 hours 
--- type command and assume role created 

select trusted entities 
--- ec2 is the selected trusted entity who (common use case)

on whom 
--- permission 

go to role create a role with ec2 access the s3 

go to that role > trust relationship > remove under principal add user > give arn of the user 

 aws sts assume-role --role-arn arn:aws:iam::109869386934:user/tabrizara --role-session-name s3-access-example --duration-seconds 30
 run this command with root aws configure 

allows you to temporarily take on the permissions of another IAM role, often in a different AWS account or within the same account.

It’s like saying:For this session, I want to act as this other role that has the necessary permissions to perform a specific task.

1. use 
🔐 1. Cross-account access
Suppose your GitLab CI/CD runs in Account A, but the infrastructure you're deploying is in Account B. You:

Create a role in Account B, and

Allow Account A to assume that role.

✅ This avoids sharing long-term access keys and helps keep accounts isolated but accessible in a secure way.


2. Privilege separation
Your user or process may have minimal permissions, but assumes a higher-privilege role only when needed.

🔐 Helps implement least-privilege access.

3. Temporary security credentials
When assuming a role, you receive:

AccessKeyId

SecretAccessKey

SessionToken

All valid for a short duration (usually 15 min to 12 hours).

✅ Ideal for automation and scripting with minimal long-term security risk.
