APPLICATION TO APLLICATION 
--- we can use SNS for this one AWS service to aanother AWS service 
--- example: cloudwatch to lambda we are using sns to trigger the lambda function 
--- it is not only an email but it can also send notification to other service 

PUBLISHER publishes msg & SUBSCRIBER receives msg

Metric --- Alarm --- SNS 
Publisher for SNS topic here is cloudwatch 
Subscribers for this here is users 

SNS supports Lambda, SQS, HTTPS etc

<!-- 2 types of PUB-SUB model -->
1. Application to Application --- the subscribe supported are SNS supports to trigger a Lambda function, SQS, HTTPS etc endpoints HTTPS & HTTPS
2. Application to person 

    PUSH notifications means-- alert, pop up display a msg and disappear soon. 

    3 types of Subscription 
    1. Push notification
    2. text messsage
    3. email

Publishing msg to SNS topic ---- who ever subscribe to Topic they will get the message may be appln or user 

<!-- TYPE OF TOPIC  -->

SNS is using other service to send message 

PUB cloudwatch ---- SNS TOPIC ---- SUB user a,b, ..... 100a.
--- as soon as the triggers it should send the msg to 100 people, 
--- while creating a topic we create SQS --- QUE 
--- one after the other it serves 
--- it holds the messages in ques
SQS
1. Standard Que
2. FIFO Que first in first out --- comes first served first 
    pub -- msgs --- this msg to 100 people then only next msg to be delivered 
    orderly messages will be served 
1. FIFO (first-in, first-out)
Strictly-preserved message ordering like OTP 
Exactly-once message delivery
Subscription protocols: SQS

2. Standard
Best-effort message ordering, no guaranteed order, 
At-least once message delivery
Subscription protocols: SQS, Lambda, Data Firehose, HTTP, SMS, email, mobile application endpoints


for email and text msgs use standard 

FIFO USE

--- Application wants to dump some messages to QUE --- from here you want to send this data to some other appln
if you want to reuse the messages then FIFO is best 
FIFO doesn't support email or texts and all
endpoint supported are only sqs 

